Let's go through how we can create,
edit, and delete our own annotations.
From scratch, you could begin by just simply
clicking the little down tab under the timeline.
You'll see the list of annotations that we already
have which we'll also see the option to create a new annotation.
You want to select the date that you want
the annotation to be associated with, and again,
that date has to exist in the range that you've selected with the date range selector.
Let's go ahead and do July 15th,
because it's there and we'll call this a test
annotation for excellent students exclamation point.
Go ahead and click "Save."
You'll see that it appends itself by date range,
so if we had made this say for July 5th,
it would have put a self between the 4th and the 9th.
Now, deleting and editing annotations is similarly intuitive,
because I created all of these I do have
control over editing them and deleting them from here.
We'll go ahead and delete.
We'll go back to March so we can catch our fun one.
Pretty sure that this Ides of March Office Decor Sale was not a real thing.
We'll go ahead and edit,
and here you see the option to delete.
It's going to ask you if you're sure,
yes we are, and we'll get rid of it.
Let's just say that I realized that I didn't want to use the word excellent,
let me go ahead and click "Edit."
We can go ahead and change anything that we want in here,
you can even change the date and re-associate it with another date if you want
to and make that awesome students and click "Save."
That's it. Now remember,
nothing that we just did is going to impact anyone because these were
all private for me and made up and only I could see them.
This may be very different than what you're dealing with depending
on what your permissions are and whether or not
you choose to share your annotations with others,
so proceed with appropriate caution.
Well, there are some considerations about functionality that are helpful to know
as you begin working with annotations and before we leave
the subject to move on the custom alerts which is next.
The first is if there isn't currently a way to timestamp
an annotation with a day or with an hour or a minute.
Or to set one that spans a range of dates and
the annotation may only be associated with one specific date.
Second, you may have noticed when you create a new annotation.
If the interface limits you to 160 characters per annotation and this provides you with
a paradox to navigate and that is how to be clear
and explicit while being required to be brief.
That's right. Our recommendation is that you be as
specific as you can in those 160 characters
because the more specific you are now the more helpful it will be farther down the road.
Now, you'll likely immediately turn to using abbreviations and acronyms.
Just a quick note,
make sure that they're ones that are
well-known to the potential audience who'll be looking at your annotations.
If you have your own acronym that you use for something that nobody knows what it means,
putting it in here is not going to be helpful.
That's a place to use up some of your characters and be more explicit.
The last thing to consider is that when you export,
let's say we wanted to export this report to a PDF.
This is going to take a few moments.
Here we go. You can see now that our report has rendered and downloaded.
We go ahead and open this.
You will see that nowhere does the text from any
of our annotations exist on the export of this report.
All of it shows are the texts bubbles to let you
know that there are annotations for those states.
Creating and editing annotations is
an important component of maintaining a healthy GA implementation.
But also remember that when you have access to others analytics you should be checking
their annotations too as a potential first-place to answer your questions.
If they've done a good job with their annotations,
the simple bits of functionality will save you a tremendous amount of
complicated digging leaving you time to see to
other aspects of your implementation and analysis.